It all started in 2022, when I tried to recreate Super Cat Tales 2.
I decided to base this off @griffpatch's Tile Scrolling tutorials as it was rock solid and Super Cat Tales 2 used tiles too.
Due to a major glitch that I couldn't fix, I abandoned the project, leaving it in a very early glitchy state.

About a year later, @juliangamer524 started a collab.
It was about making a Super Cat Tales fan game.
I was invited.

I then took back that old engine and shared it as 0.1 .
A few minutes later, I updated it to 1.0, which fixed many glitches, including the one that originally caused me to abandon the engine.
For the next updates, I remixed the old one and updated it.

Later, I released a preview of version 2.0 of the engine.
It fixed a bug related to jumping, added a title screen, the Neutronized (or actually Heathercat123) logo, improved mobile controls and added support for having more than one music.

I updated it and introduced a world map and vector sprites.
Then I added a world map.
Then a pause menu.
Then bells.
Then ropes.
Then signs.
Then water.

After that, we had the 'week of cats', where six new cats were added in a single week.
@DaMLGGGCAT and @MARIOWXT did the graphics (except for in the cat menu), whereas I did the code and the cat menu graphics.
I also did most of the portraits.

After this week, I went back to adding new features.
I made the world map scrollable, added the inventory from PAWS, added the two hits before game over mechanism, added an hat in honor of @MARIOWXT, added widescreen support and revised many graphics.

But then, in 2024, I got banned from Scratch.
The account I used for creating Scratch Cat Tales versions got deleted, along with my projects.
We lost the four latest betas, along with 28 others.
The original engine from 2022 became lost media.
Everyone lost hope in Scratch Cat Tales.
Everyone but @DaMLGGGCAT.
Even though they didn't make any new beta until 2025.
I also began the 'Scratch Cat Tales Archive' project, but didn't complete it until 2025.

We are now in 2025.
I went back to the archival project and examined the remix tree for the project Scratch Cat Tales is based on.
Of course, the normal remix tree would've been hell to work with, so I examined the JSON used by the remix tree.
I managed to find a few remixes.
Those remixes included two for not the latest beta, but the one right before.
One of them was by me and was an extremely slimmed down version of the game.
It's impossible to recover it into stock Scratch Cat Tales.
However, the other remix, by @Jacy_May_Maggel, looked more promising.
I then started recovering it.

After what I believe to be a few hours, I finished recovering it.
After all those months, we finally had a recent version of Scratch Cat Tales.
I shared it to the world, and @DaMLGGGCAT updated it!
It seems like they were really looking forwards for this collab!

- Heathercat123